>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
look at our lists, so
that would be this exercise right here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I had a new list with the characters,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Of hello.
Can look at it,
I can append something to my list.
Where does append insert
the that new value?
>> Student: At the end of the list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: At the end,
that's right.
We can look at the length of my list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we can do a little bit of list slicing.
So, I mentioned earlier that you can
access items in a list by position.
There's something called
slicing that lets you
access more than one item
in the list at a time.
So if I wanted to access the first
few items, let's put 3 here,
that would give me back the items
from position 0 to position 3.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I can also optionally,
if I'm looking at the beginning or
the end,
I can leave off one of these values.
So if this is not present then,
>> Nina Zakharenko: It
does the same thing that's
kind of the inferred value.
And,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Negative indexing is
possible too.
So if I wanted to look at the very last
item in the list, I would use index -1.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There are a few
other ways of interacting with our list.
I can call remove on the list
in person the string out,
will that remove all
of the instances of l?
>> Student: The first instance.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Just the first one,
that's right.
I can also insert,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Don't forget,
like I did,
where I got an error that you have to pass
a position to insert a required argument.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I talked about popping.
But there's another way of
deleting items from a list,
and that's with the del keyword.
And you can say delete
the item at my_list 0,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And it'll be gone.
Personally I really don't
like this type of syntax,
it doesn't really fit in with the other
data types that we looked at.
It's kind of there you might
see it in other Python code,
but I recommend not using it.
Or we could just pop,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The last
item on the list.
Optionally we can pass
an argument into pop, and
that would be the position to pop from.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We can see if a
particular value is in my list with the in
keyword, it's not.
And we can sort in place with
my_list.sort(reverse=True), oops.
Reverse=True, and now we'll see my
list is sorted in reverse order.
Remember that calling .sort
doesn't return anything.
If we wanted a copy instead of
modifying the list in place,
we would call sorted on my_list, and
also parse in the reverse=True argument.
Okay, working with sets.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Remember
that tape of empty brackets is
a dictionary,
to make a new set we need to use
the set constructor
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
can check that with type or just look at
the variable and see that it's a set.
We can add items to our set, or
we can just override it with
a non-empty,
>> Nina Zakharenko: With some values.
I can, oops, sorry.
I can add a value to it.
I can also remove,
>> Nina Zakharenko: A value from it.
Okay, so that's mutable.
I can also test for membership with the in
keyword
>> Nina Zakharenko: Unlike with less,
every item in the start has to be unique.
So if I have my_set and
I try to add 3 to it again,
we'll see that it's only in there once.
Looking at some set operations,
making a new set
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops,
I now wanted to call it my_other_set,
so let me fix that.
We can combine the two sets with a union.
We use the symbols before but
we can also use the methods.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that's all of the items that are in both.
We can get the difference.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
>> Nina Zakharenko: What's
the value that is in both?
Or we can get the intersection.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, these are the
values that are unique to each set.
Each set already had four in it.
Okay, looking at tuples,
we know that we can't
make a one item tuple
with just parentheses,
we know that we need to
insert a comma there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's make a new tuple.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What happens if we try
to add or change a value in our tuple.
Is this possible?
It's not.
Tuples are immutable,
does not support item assignment.
Let's make a new person.
Jim, Jim has an age, he's 29 and
he lives in Austin, Taxes.
We can use tuple unpacking,
>> Nina Zakharenko: To quickly
pull out all of the values in a tuple and
assign variables to them.
Now we can look at Jim's name,
age and hometown.
For dictionaries, remember,
they kind of use those curly
braces just like a set,
but instead it contains key value pairs.
The key value is separated with a colon,
and
each key value pair is
separated with a comma.
What happens if we try to get the item
at position zero in our dictionary?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Unless key zero
happens to be there, but
dictionaries do not have an order.
Okay, let's add a few more
items in our dictionary.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we can take a look at it here.
Now there are three items,
to get the value for the key Hello,
I would use the square bracket
like I would for a list access.
But instead of putting in a position,
I would put in a key.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I can also
use the mideck.get for a key.
What is the difference between using
the square brackets to access a key in
a dictionary and using .get?
>> Student2: Once you use the key, error
that t comes back, or lack of an error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,lack of an error.
So if I use .get on a key
that is not in my dictionary,
I will not get an error,
whereas I will if I use the square.
So my dictionary doesn't have baz in it,
right?
I will get a key error for baz, but
if I use my_dict.get("baz") no error.
And I can also provide
a default value to get.
So if I call get on a key that's no there,
I will get the default value back.
If I call get on a key that is there,
what result will I see?
>> Student3: The key that's there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Or the value.
>> Student3: The value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The value for
the key that's there, right?
So, remember dictionaries
are key value pairs, so
I can look at dictionary keys,
I can look at the dictionary values.
Oops, I made a typo not value but values.
But if I wanna look at the key value pairs
at once, I will need to look at items.
Now we'll return into data structure
that kind of look like a list,
but it basically contain
the sequence of tuples.
And we'll use that later with tuple
unpacking when we talk about looping.
Very quickly, mutability.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
lists are mutable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll
see that the value changed.
Dictionaries are also mutable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: To add a new key,
her foo, and the value is bar.
Okay, sets are also mutable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But
we can't change our set with,
>> Nina Zakharenko: With the index here.
Why is that?
>> Student3: Because it's.
>> Student: Not ordered.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's not ordered.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, I can use .add,
.remove, and .discard.
Tuples on the other hand are immutable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I try to change, I can do this, right?
I can look at the first item
in my tuple that index 0.
But if I try to change it,
when I get an error,
the tuple object does not
support item assignment.